A Grey Day at the FTC
by Alex Yeager

The person behind the desk laughed, then pushed the report back across to the
puzzled junior bureaucrat. "Our job is not to break up monopolies - it's to make
sure only the RIGHT monopolies survive."

And, under the desk, a curiously malformed hand tightened on a bizarre pistolâ€¦

Card Data
Illuminati:

    UFOs

Groups:

    Big Media
    CFL-AIO
    Cable TV
    Fast Food Chains
    Fnord Motor Company
    Gay Activists
    IRS
    Las Vegas
    Liquor Companies
    Madison Avenue
    Multinational Oil Companies
    NSA
    Wall Street

Resources:

    Center for Weird Studies
    Clipper Chip x2
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Perpetual Motion Machine

Plots:

    Bavarian Illuminati
    Anarchists Unite!
    Bait and Switch
    Censorship
    Cover of Darkness
    Cover-Up
    Forgery
    Goal: Power for its Own Sake
    Goal: The Corporate Masters
    Good Polls x2
    Hoax x2
    March on Washington
    Martial Law
    NWO: Apathy
    NWO: Bigger Business
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex x2
    NWO: Tax Reform
    Power Grab
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Stock Split
    Sweeping Reforms
    Unmasked!
    Voodoo Economics

Strategy
Beginning

    The recommended lead group order is as follows:
        1st choice: Multinational Oil Companies
        If bounced: CFL-AIO (so you've got a Corporate attacker out fast)
        If bounced, AND Tax Reform is in hand: IRS
        Otherwise: NSA 

    Ideally, you'd like to have one Government group out early; IRS is okay
(it's here as a target more than anything else, but with Tax Reform early on,
it's VERY nice). As soon as you draw NSA, immediately make it your next ATO. Use
the Power Grab early if possible. Your initial goal is to run up to about 25
points of power, with at least one Government group attached.

    If PMM, CWS or OMCL comes up, use Illuminati tokens to grab them. These are
there more as bait for people to burn their Resource-killers, but as long as you
can take advantage of them, do so. I usually link the PMM to the Multinats, in
order to get two opportunities to block interference. (And I can usually be
generous in offering its services to others...)

Midgame

    Putter around. Take over your smaller groups (Gay Activists, Fnord Motor
Co., Fast Food, Liquor Companies). Try and coast in around 30-35 Power, but all
those little Corporate groups will come in very handy in a bit. Use your
defenses sparingly but effectively (Zaps to kill Control attacks in midstream,
Apathy to kill group assaults, +10s for specific defenses). Threaten other
Corporates with CFL-AIO. You should be in a good position to make attacks from
your hand, and Fnord helps to keep the attacks successful. Although your two
Media groups are Corporate and therefore useful later, they're useful in
snatching Media group from others (or as +10s for those Groups themselves). They
also may prove useful to power Sweeping Reforms later (though you've got March
on Washington if necessary).

    Above all, try desperately NOT to use your Plot cancelers!!! There's one
card above all others that can hurt this deck (read on if you haven't figured it
out yet), and those cancelers may become critical in the end game. BTW, Hoax is
here because you want to lose as little of your Plot pile as possible. Granted,
you have UFO tokens to throw around, but you want your Plots to stay intact
until you have a way or two to win. Be careful.

Endgame

    There are four way to win with this deck:
        Run to the Basic Goal. You've got good power, lots of control arrows,
good bonuses on Corporate and Media groups, and it could very easily arrive at
this before other strategies pan out.
        Power For Its Own Sake/Unmask to Bavaria: Here's the bit for the folks
who like tricky decks. During the turn you go for the win, you want to ATO
and/or attack to control any remaining Corporate groups in your hand as
necessary. Then, drop NWO: Military-Industrial Complex on the table (all Corp.
are Gov't. except for Goals), then use an Ill. token to bring a Clipper Chip
into play. Boom - add two Power for each Corporate OR Government Group in play,
which usually jumps you 10-16 points. Unmask to Bavaria or drop PFIOS on the
table. (Note that you've got two NWO: MIC and two Clippers.) OMCLs may be
useful, too, if you've still got them (not bloody likely, but hey...)

        You may find it useful to drop a Clipper on the table beforehand,
especially if you've got both IRS and NSA out. NSA is very defensible (being
Secret and all), but realize that if you lose both, it becomes very risky to
keep a previously-played Clipper Chip from being discarded. Gay Activists are
there as a stopgap for a turn (turn a Corp. Gov't), but then you're stuck with
keeping NWO: MIC in play for the rest of the game.

        Here's where you use your cancelers like water; fight any given
opposition like crazy, especially if you've got a backup win already in your
pocket. For example, I love to let folks beat on me trying to make my Unmasked!
go away, tossing canceler after canceler on the discard pile, only to sweetly
drop a Goal card during phase 6. Let them fight against the obvious, and keep
the actual win back..
        Corporate Masters: You have lots of powerful Corporate groups, and both
the OMCLs and Gay Activists can get you one more if needed. Note that although
this is a fairly obvious Goal, many folks will get fixated on the run to 50
power and ignore this possibility.

Potential Problems

    NWO: Antitrust Legislation is a real threat. Sweeping Reforms is here
because of it; cancelers are here because of it; Gay Activists is here because
of it (again, as a stopgap, but it's better than having to throw away Groups
NOW...) This is ALWAYS an exception to the "don't use cancelers" admonition, and
use any means necessary to clear it.

    Other than that, you are using some fairly common groups, but you've got
good Power and bonuses to bring to bear. If things begin to fall apart, or
you're stopped emphatically, use Voodoo Economics to dump some remaining cards
and get medieval on outlying groups.

Variants and Substitutions

    Las Vegas is Corporate, but you don't want folks drawing into your pile via
a misfired special ability. It's probably the best to replace - and since this
deck was created pre-SubGenius, we now have several much better Groups to
replace it with. For that matter, both Jesus B. and Divine Mail Order would be
almost certain substitutions into this deck today, and I would probably give
Citizens For Normalcy a good hard look too (plot canceler).

    Using Zaps to cancel Attacks to Control is a highly effective means of
killing attacks, and usually only one is necessary to scare folks off (or switch
them to Attacks to Destroy :P ). Another +10 or two might be nice, but IMO
hasn't been necessary in practice.

    There are a few cards put in here as attack magnets (PMM, OMCL and IRS as
the most obvious). Based on you playgroup's style, you certainly could replace
them if you think their magnet abilities would be minimal.

    There you go - we're back in the saddle again!

Back to Deck of the Week
