Adepts of Khermit
Deck of the Week #86
Invoked by Martin LÃ¦rkes

"When a novice is to be initiated and is brought before the assembly of the
wicked for the first time, a sort of frog appears to him; a toad according to
some. Some bestow a foul kiss on his hind parts, others on his mouth, sucking
the animals tongue and slaver. Sometimes the toad is of a normal size, but at
others it is as large as a goose or a duck. Usually it is the size of an oven's
mouth." - Pope Gregory IX, The Witches of Stedlingerland, 1232 A.D.

Scholars have hypothesized that pope Gregory IX wrote this decretal letter under
the influence of the mad inquisitor Conrad of Marburg. But the truth is that it
describes quite accurately the rituals of the "Adepts of Khermit", servants of
the big frog.

Playing the Deck

The Plan
This is the fourth deck in the series featuring the goals from the SubGenius
expansion, and this tries to do something clever with Goal: Arise!. Arise! has
many uses, the obvious one being to goad your rivals into eliminating you from
the game. But it is also an excellent card for shared victories. It allows you
to give all your groups except one to a rival, in return for having him destroy
that last group - instant shared victory, if you can trust him.

Even more illuminated is to have something you do count as an attack by a rival,
thus making absolutely sure that you a "rival" eliminates you. Somebody Kill Me,
Please! by Darrin Bright is an extremely powerful example of this.

Your final option, the one that will be demonstrated by this deck, is to create
a win-win situation, where your rivals either allow you to win, or have to
destroy you in which case you still win. This can be done by either Shangri-La
(as seen in The Superman Deck), Church of the SubGenius (with lots of tokens),
Servants of Cthulhu (seppuku) or Adepts of Hermes.

This is a Hermes deck conjuring up magic resources as fast as possible, while
using groups that count double with Goal: Brag of the SubGenius. If your rivals
starts attacking you, which they ought to, you can win with a single group on
the table and your huge stockpile of resources.

Playing Adepts
Playing the Adepts, it is almost mandatory to combine your special goal with a
doubler goal. While it is very tempting to do so, it is quite important not to
link magic resources to groups (since this is an easy way to lose a resource),
and not to use too many of the powerful resources, because your rivals will have
them in their decks too.

This deck uses a few powerful resources, Crystal Skull being the most commonly
used one, while the remainder of your magical collection consists of Frog Gods.
	

The Deck

    Illuminati: Adepts of Hermes

    Dittoheads x2

    Jesus B.

    Overman Philo Drummond

    Reverend Ivan Stang

    St. Janor Hypercleats

    www.subgenius.com

    Ark of the Covenant

    Book of Kells

    Crystal Skull

    Flying Saucer

    The Frog God x4

    Immortality Serum

    The Necronomicon

    Shroud of Turin

    Warehouse 23 x2

    Alternate Goals

    Cover of Darkness

    Eternal Salvation or T. Y. M. B.

    Forgery

    Goal: Arise! x2

    Goal: Hail Eris! x2

    March on Washington x2

    Miraculous Manifestation

    More Slack!

    NWO: A Thousand Points of Light

    ...Or Kill Me!

    Rain of Praerie Squid

    Rant! x2

    Saint of Sales x2

    Savings and Loans Scam x2

    SMWNMTK

    The Stars Are Right x2

Opening Game
Lead with St. Janor Hypercleats, since he should be able to power all your
resource generating cards. Should he bounce, Overman Philo Drummond or Reverend
Ivan Stang make reasonable substitues.
On your opening turn, try to play as many resource generating plots as possible
while your rivals can not interfere.
If you have Saint of Sales or the Stars are Right on your opening hand, then
your first ATO should be a Dittoheads, or the Book of Kells as a back-up, so
that you can power these. If using the Book of Kells, just remember to unlink it
on turn 2, so you don't lose it to an attack on St. Janor.

Your second 1st turn objective is to take over the Flying Saucer with an
Illuminati action. If you don't have it, hopefully you have a Warehouse 23,
which can get it. If you have both Warehouse and Saucer on hand, use the Saucer
to take the Warehouse, and then the Warehouse to thin out your deck.

Whichever resource you can finally grab with the Saucer, make it a powerful one,
so you get it before your rivals. Crystal Skull is the prime choice, but Shroud
of Turin will give you knowledge that will let you make better discards from
your deck, and Ark of the Covenant should make St. Janor a less attractive
target.

Midgame
Keep taking over resources at accelerated pace. Use ATOs on groups that will
count double towards Brag of the SubGenius. If this makes your rivals attack
you, just keep going, and prepare to fall back on Arise!. If they don't, you're
that much closer to winning.

Don't be afraid to use Illuminati tokens to draw an extra group if you have to.
Www.subgenius.com will also help you draw more groups if you get it. If you draw
both your goals, then put Arise! where you can get it with the use of your plot
control resources, or play Alternate Goals if you have it.

End Game
Just keep it up. Don't save your tokens for protection if you can benefit from
them on your own turn. Remember, if you lose a group you've got spares that
count double too, and you have Arise! if your rivals really decide to tear into
you. If you really take a beating, exposing Arise! will keep it relatively safe,
and will be a clear signal to your attackers to back off.

A good play on your last turn is to use the Immortality Serum hidden in
Warehouse 23 to make an easy take over of a SubGenius personality. If that
personality is Jesus B., then be sure to buy your extra Illuminati token
straight away. This play is also your best option if you've exposed Arise! and
you've got just 1 group in play. One ATO, one personality and a goal switch
later, you can have "seven" groups, needing just a few resources to reach
victory.

Potential Problems
The deck isn't very strong on interaction, so if a rival can beat you to
victory, there is little you can do about it. Rely on your own speed, or the
help of your other rivals to prevent such a victory. If NWO: Interesting Times
or The Magic Goes Away comes out, then you're in trouble. Magic Goes Away will
weaken you, and will require you to move your Dittoheads to a new master, while
IT with the wrong option will bury you - like it will most decks. Hope for your
canceller, your blue NWO, or the help of another rival.

If you need to buy some help, remember that you've got a spare Brag of the
SubGenius for someone else, as well as spare groups that will count double
towards it.

Variants and Substitutions
If you aren't allowed to use five Frog Gods, or just don't have them, substitute
with any inferior magic resource like Spear of Longinus, Bronze Head or Hammer
of Thor. If on the other hand you are allowed to use more than 2 duplicates of
each plot, then multiple Saint of Sales are probably easier to work with than
the combination of Saint of Sales, Rant! and The Stars Are Right which only
really works with St. Janor.

Good luck... [Rib-bit].
