1. Fiends in High Places

The ascension is near. You are a faithful servant of Cthulhu, and you and your
followers have spent years infiltrating the Government. There simply isn't a
better way to legitimize your violent tendencies. Now, the stars are right!
Great Cthulhu will reveal himself, and those who are found worthy shall get
their reward.

Deck Listing

Illuminati
   Servants of Cthulhu

Groups
   Al Gore 
   B.A.T.F. 
   Bank of England 
   C.I.A. 
   California 
   Center for Disease Control 
   Federal Reserve 
   I.R.S. 
   NASA 
   Secret Service 
   Supreme Court 
   Hammer of Thor 
   Shroud of Turin
   The Holy Grail 

Plots
   Bodyguard
   Bribery
   Celebrity Spokesman
   Censorship
   Computer Virus
   Corruption
   Currency Speculation
   Early Warning
   Emergency Powers
   George the Janitor
   Good Polls
   Gremlins
   Hurricane
   Martial Law
   Martyrs
   New Federal Budget
   Nobel Peace Prize
   Opportunity Knocks
   Power Grab
   Privatization
   Save the Whales
   Senate Investigating Committee
   Sniper
   Stealing the Plans
   Sucked Dry and Cast Aside
   The Big Sellout
   The Oregon Crud
   Volcano
   NWO: Chicken in Every Pot
   NWO: Military Industrial Complex

Strategy

You're in a game with 3 Cthulhu players. Attacking to destroy against them has a
+9 bonus. That should leave plenty of opportunities for destruction. It will
also make your own groups a big fat target. Don't ignore diplomacy - 2 against 1
is a bad situation. If the UFO player is in the game, you can probably get him
to help you - for a price.

Your plot deck is pretty self explanatory.
B.A.T.F. is probably your best hitter. It will have plenty of targets, but
remember that leading with it may spell a quick demise. Center for Disease
Control is also awesome - there are plenty of violent places around. You should
seriously consider bringing the Holy Grail into play before the CDC, just to
make sure that it isn't nuked with disasters as soon as it hits the table. If
you have the nerves for it, you might make it corporate with Privitization. That
will allow it to attack all those violent government places with a massive +23
bonus.

NASA can supply extra tokens for either of these hitters, while Supreme Court
can cancel government actions - perhaps Saddams, once he starts cancelling you.
C.I.A. and Secret Service is a nasty combo, but just remember that killing
anything as long as there is a token on the Clone Arrangers is a waste of time,
(unless you've struck a deal with the
UFOs).