Attack of the Bodysnatchers
by Martin LÃ¦rkes

The aliens' plan was as brilliant as it was insidious. They would seize power by
killing key personal and replacing them with duplicates controlled by the aliens
themselves. The manlings would not suspect that more and more of their brethren
were in fact alien invaders until it was too late......
Card Data
Illuminati:

    UFOs

Groups:

    Citizens for Normalcy
    Divine Mail Order x2
    Fnord Motor Companies
    Liquor Companies
    Multinational Oil Companies
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Pentagon
    The Thule Group

Resources:

    The Holy Grail
    Perpetual Motion Machine
    Warehouse 23

Plots:

    Agent in Place x2
    Comet Hail-Bob x2
    Goal: Cast Out False Prophets
    NWO: Interesting Times x2
    NWO: Solidarity
    Power Grab x2
    Sabotage x4
    Seize the Time
    Senate Investigating Committee x2
    Tape Runs Out x2
    Unmasked x2
    Upheaval x3
    Adepts of Hermes
    Bermuda Triangle
    Church of the Subgenius
    Gnomes of Zurich
    The Network
    Servants of Cthulhu
    Shangri-La
    Society of Assassins

Strategy
The Plan

    Since DotW submissions are currently few and far between, I might as well
use the opportunity to feature some neglected cards and strategies. Therefore
I've decided to create a deck revolving around of each the SubGenius goals. The
first one was deck #79 - the fun'damentalist deck, using Science Can Not Remove
the Terror of the Gods.

    This time I'm focusing on arguably the hardest of the 5 SubGenius goals:
Cast Out False Prophets (CoFP). CoFP can serve as a decent plan b in an
destructive deck, but using it as your main objective entails a few problems:
Managing to eliminate a rival from the game is not an easy task, eliminating the
right one is even harder - and that's assuming that the right illuminati is even
out there in the first place! To do this your deck must be built for this one
purpose - so (moderate) degeneracy and plentiful ruthlessness is required.

    Your plan is as simple as it is mean. Choose a rival and then pick on him
from the get go. Keep blasting him with the meanest plots and groups in the
game, never allowing him to grow beyond 2 puppets. Hopefully your remaining
rivals will assume that you're just being a spiteful git when you finish him
off, never thinking what you could be up to. Put his illuminati in your
destroyed pile, unmask as whatever he was playing, reveal Cast Out False
Prophets and laugh evilly.

Opening Game

    Lead with Pentagon, because you need a source of extra plot draws. If
Pentagon bounces, then Divine Mail Order is your best back-up. On your first
turn, bring out Divine Mail Order as a puppet of Pentagon if possible - or
either Liquor Companies or Multinational Oil Companies if it isn't.

    Other than that, you have 2 priorities: By the time that your victim is
about to begin his second turn, you must have an ATO-stopper (Comet Hail-Bob,
Sabotage, Senate Investigating Committee - or Upheaval in an emergency) on hand,
as well as the means to power it. You also need to protect Pentagon with the
Holy Grail. Power Grab if you can, because you need your tokens for picking on
your victim, and you need a strong start to really dominate.

    Apart from these objectives, you also need to figure out which rival to pick
on. Choosing the most vulnerable player is a big part of winning with this deck,
so consider the following:
        Picking on a player who is later in the turn order than yourself will
give you the huge advantage of having an extra turn to set up your arsenal.
        Attacking a UFO player will mean that you won't have to unmask but might
also alert your rivals to what you're up to.
        Leave Bavaria and Discordia alone. Bavaria can use its privilege to
outgrow you, and Discordia is very hard to attack, so your deck can't unmask as
these two.
        Look at your rivals leads and first ATOs. Your victim shouldn't have too
many matching alignments or other slurp bonuses - and definitely shouldn't have
managed an extra group takeover on the first turn.
        An adepts player focusing on resources may have a weak group
composition, a Bermuda player may have a problem with alignments, and Cthulhu
may be too destruction oriented to recover from your pre-emptive attack.
        If any rival's first ATO is a resource - smite him!

Midgame

    When your victim's second turn starts, it is time to get dirty. You need to
block his every ATO, (and attack to control) from here on out. The first time
you do it, downplay it. Your rivals don't yet know that you're going to do this
repeatedly, so you may well get help with it early on. Besides, everybody likes
to see someone else lose a group. In fact, as long as the remaining players
haven't figured out what you're up to, they should be happy to see you ruining
it for someone else, while not really progressing yourself. If someone decides
to interfere, kindly tell them that your nasty plots and groups could be used
against them instead. If your rivals start pestering you about why you're being
so mean, either say "because I can", or bring up a past situation where your
victim has wronged you - whether real or imagined.

    Regarding your ATO-stopping plots: Remember that Sabotage can potentially be
powered by Pentagon or the Multinational Oil Companies instead of the UFOs and
that Senate Investigating Committee stops the turn cold. Comet Hail-Bob can be
used to stop any attack to control, so don't use it on an ATO unless you have
to.

    After that first important turn, you need to keep knocking your victims ATOs
down. Take your own ATOs, do what you can to get another ATO-stopper into your
hand, and save the rest of your tokens for screwing over your victim. If you're
in a position where you don't have to search for plots, then that is probably a
good time to take over the Perpetual Motion Machine and linking it to the UFOs.

    There are some quite nasty groups in your deck, and you should pick the
order of your ATOs according to your plot hand and the opposition you expect to
be facing. Multinational Oil Companies is big, and will keep a rival off your
back once you close in for the kill. Fnord Motor Companies will save you from
having your key attack ruined by a Murphy's Law or a bad roll. Liquor Companies
can block his plot draws. Finally - the NPCs is a monster, but don't bring it
out early if you think that it will antagonize the remaining players. Remember
to make your corporate groups puppets of Pentagon for more plot draws.

    You also need to consider when you're going to start picking off your rivals
2 remaining groups. Ideally you can start doing this by turn 3 (when opponents
can first be knocked out), but turn 4 (or even 5) may be more realistic.

End Game

    What you're doing isn't going to be easy. Hopefully you'll have the element
of surprise on your side. Assuming that everything goes according to plan, your
rival will have just 2 groups and his illuminati when you're ready to eliminate
him. This is the proper time to ATO the Thule Group. Also, you'll most likely
need one or more of your Upheavals.

    Probably play the upheaval first, to deprive your opponent of a valuable
defensive token. If the other players complain, make whatever deal you can. For
the final attack, remember to use Multinational Oil Companies to shut out
whichever rival can interfere with the most power, and use the Thule group along
with all those illuminati groups to push home the attack. With a little luck
you'll be able to take out your victim in one fell swoop.

    If you fail, hopefully you can still block one more ATO, and then try again
on your next turn. Or perhaps use your Seize the Time to get a second go with
the Thule Group straight away - (you're not really playing any plots with the
Thule Group, just discarding them).

    If you do manage to knock out your victim, then it is time for the final
step of your wicked plan. You probably need a turn to recuperate before
completing your transformation and revealing your true self. On your final turn,
the Citizens for Normalcy is your best ATO, because it can help strong-arming
your Unmasked! through. On a technical note, remember that you don't have to
reveal what you intend to unmask as until after your rivals have decided whether
to cancel or not. So if they don't cancel then they can not take it back, and if
they do cancel then you don't lose your illuminati agent. Once you've shed your
skin then all you need to do is reveal your goal. 

Potential Problems

    This is not a powerful deck. Lots of things can go wrong, but fortunately
you are not without contingency plans. If you manage to wear down your rival,
and then someone else manages to finish him off before you do, then you're in
trouble. In a 3 player game - see below. In a game with 4 or more players, you
may be able to buy your way into a shared victory. The conditions are simple:
You give the shrewd rival both your goal, the Unmasked! and the illuminati
agent, in return for a huge chunk of his power structure, allowing you a basic
goal win alongside his CoFP win.

    If the whole thing falls apart, and you can't apply enough pressure to your
victim, then you have to rely on Unmasked! for a conventional win. You have 2
groups that will count double towards the Gnomes goal. Even better is the
SubGenius goal: You'll have 2 illuminati tokens, or even 3 with the PPM, each
counting towards the basic goal. Finally, should Shangri-La be in the game, you
know you'll want to join him. Remember that if your original plan fails, all
those nasty plots can be used to bring down the leader, buying you more time to
set up your own contingency plan.

Variants and Substitutions

    The deck list above is just one way of creating a Bodysnatcher deck. But
there are many more. When I designed this deck, a number of excellent cards
didn't make the final cut. Jesus B. is an excellent corporate group that could
supply you with an illuminati token when you need it the most, and the Black
Helicopters is an easy way to claim privilege on your final eliminating attack.
Crystal Skull is extremely powerful when it comes to finding the right plots,
but it is often hotly contested.

    As for plots, NWO: The Magic Goes Away looked promising because it can
permanently jam your victims ATOs. Unfortunately it will also annoy everyone
else, and will render the Thule Group tokenless. Fickle Finger of Fate is also
wicked, because whether your victim uses his illuminati token to remove it or to
get his free +10 for an attack, you can cancel him with the NPCs, stripping him
of all his ATOs. The problem with any Zap! based solution is that if any 3rd
part decides to intervene, then your Zap! goes down the drain.

    Another variant of this deck could be based on government groups. Leading
with Germany will ensure that you can make a massive attack on your final turn
(perhaps with a Dictatorship and a Truckbomb), while Bank of England and NASA
can generate plenty of plot draws. IRS will deprive your victim of potentially
important plot cards, while you can either use them against him, or sacrifice
them to the Center for Weird Studies. NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State was
what made the government version my runner-up choice, but the NWO could be
countered with a Clipper Chip.

    The greatest problem with either of these decks is that they require a
handful of the rare Sabotage to work properly.

Variant: Liquor Denial

    One version that does not require 4 Sabotages is the Brown Bag Sandbag. For
years I've tried to come up with a deck that can actually win through group
denial, and CoFP has finally made this possible. Before CoFP, ruining the game
for a single player was not a winning strategy, and attempting group denial on
several players was hardly a realistic scenario.

    Lead with Liquor Companies, and use it to block the group draws (not plot
draws) of your chosen victim. Either the NPCs or a second Liquor token from
China can block his attempts at extra draws. This means that beyond his lead and
first ATO, he will only have a 6 card group hand - the rest of his groups will
stay undrawn in his deck. Use Smite Them All!, and Let's you and Him Fight to
remove further group cards from his hand, use Sabotage to block his ATO while
you do it, and use Upheaval and Comet Hail-Bob to nail any successful ATO. Once
you've removed his group hand, you can keep him out of the game by blocking his
draws - and then eliminate him and unmask just like in the other versions.

Back to Deck of the Week
