Cult of Cthulhu
by Martin Laerkes

The acolytes did not dare lift their gaze to meet the eyes of the ancient mage.
As he sifted through the pages of the accursed book, their concentration was
unbroken and their chanting continuous. The undying sorcerer removed his cowl,
and what was first a silent droning soon became a threatening crescendo of
forbidden words - "rl'yeh ie thaanu shub niggurath"

Hundreds of miles away, sir Robert Randleby III doubled over in agony - as his
lungs inexplicably started to fill up with maggots. His death was slow and
painful.

Card Data
Illuminati:

    Servants of Cthulhu

Groups:

    Count Dracula
    Dittoheads
    New York
    Professional Sports
    Reformed Church of Satan
    St. Janor Hypercleats
    WITCH

Resources:

    Book of Kells
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Flying Saucer
    Hitler's Brain
    Martyr Meter
    Necronomicon
    Perpetual Motion Machine

Plots:

    NWO Red: Apathy x2
    Annual Convention x2
    Celebrity Spokesman
    Crop Circles x2
    NWO Yellow: End of the World x2
    Forgery
    Giant Kudzu
    Goal: Hail Eris
    Harmonica Virgins
    Hoax
    Messiah
    New Blood x2
    Plague of Demons x2
    Rant!
    Savings & Loan Scam x2
    Terrorist Nuke x2
    Truck Bomb x2
    Withering Curse x2
    NWO Blue: World Hunger
    X-Day

Strategy
Introduction

    The Cult of Cthulhu has been around for many centuries. Though there are
many ways to serve the dark gods' wicked ends, there is none more pleasing to
great Cthulhu than by using the ancient art of magic. Before the deadly weapons
of the present, the magician serving Cthulhu wielded ultimate power. And in many
ways he still does, for even though man has forgotten about magic, its power is
still very real!

    Servants of Cthulhu was the obvious choice for a death magic deck. Both
Cthulhu's special ability and goal are vital to your 'enchanting' tactics.

    The first version of this deck was designed more than a year ago. The idea
was to create a "real" Cthulhu deck - one that destroyed by means of magic. I
started off with Annual Convention, but soon noticed all of the instant attacks
powered by magic. My reasoning was this: Instant attacks are always good. Adding
a token to an instant attack can make it very powerful. Adding a ridiculously
big token makes for a truly devastating attack. Doing this with an Instant that
targets organizations leaves no cover for your rivals. And, a bit of fortunate
wording on NWO: Apathy, helps the scheme alongâ€¦

Beginning

    Lead with Count Dracula. If he bounces, your deck has lost some of its
punch, but both St. Janor Hypercleats and W.I.T.C.H. make good substitute leads
- and can both reach impressive levels of power. These 2 cards are also your
back-ups, in case something unfortunate should happen to the Count.

    Your first objective is to boost Draculas power as quickly as possible, both
for defensive purposes, but also in order to prepare for your barrage of deadly
spells. If you do not have a New Blood, Celebrity Spokesman or Messiah on hand,
you must do everything in your power to acquire one. Crop Circles, Savings and
Loans Scams (and X-day if you're desperate) are in the deck for the express
purpose of laying your hands on these power-ups.

    If you have no such cards, then do not be tempted by your awesome goody-bag
of Resources - lead with a group (Dittoheads and Professional Sports will add
some power) and do nothing, so that you can draw 3 plots at the beginning of
your next turn. You should only stray from this tactic if it seems likely that
the Count will be assassinated. In this case, bring out the Flying Saucer with
your Illuminati token if you have it.

    Once you have acquired some power, your next objective is to give the Count
some extra tokens. The Resources that create tokens should be taken before the
power doublers, since the doublers can be used on the turn they are brought into
play. Remember that the Flying Saucer can be used to take over Resources, as can
Rant! - which can be powered by the Count's minion, St. Janor.

    You have several means of defense. The more high power tokens Dracula has,
the less likely he is to be attacked - just sit on your tokens for now. The
Saucer will add some extra protection if needed. But your number one defensive
card is NWO: Apathy. Play it as soon as you get it; it will both protect you,
and hinder the growth of your rivals.

Midgame

    Now is the time to consolidate your power. Keep piling tokens on Dracula,
and play the puppets that further boost his power. If no non-huge places are in
play, (or you just need a big gun), then you should also bring out New York.
W.I.T.C.H. is also important, especially if the Count has the Necronomicon -
Cyborg Soldiers is your best bet for power doubling. Messiah will give the Count
a substantial extra power boost, so see if you can dig it out. If somebody else
is already the Messiah, don't worry - the masses will recognize the true Messiah
once you've assassinated your predecessor.

    If you feel like attacking someone, always attack the player in the lead.
You might just get a little help from your rivals, and bringing the leader down
will buy you more time. Truck Bombs are useful for picking on the leader. Don't
get greedy, but blow up something you are sure that you can manage - opposing
alignment(s) and a +10 should be enough to push the attack through. The
Illuminati token is most likely unavailable anyway - either because you've taken
a Resource, or because of Apathy. Truck Bombing is a job best left to Dracula's
minions - the Book of Kells will prevent Dracula from using such primitive
measures himself.

    Hitler's Brain is very nice to get into play once you are ready to unleash
the full fury of your deadly spells. There are a lot of Resources to take over,
but it should be manageable with the Saucer, Illuminati tokens and Rant!.

Endgame

    Once Dracula has 3-4 tokens per turn, and a power of 15-20, you are ready to
hit your rivals with all your might. Keep all your tokens, and wait for the end
phase of the rival preceding your own turn. Now is the time to smite the enemies
of great Cthulhu.

    Apathy may very well still be out, but you need not worry about that. Apathy
prevents groups from aiding attacks made by other groups - but fortunately, all
of your attacks will not be made by groups at all. They will be Instant attacks,
so Dracula is free to chip in his hideously big tokens.

    [Editor's note: I'm satisfied that this meets the letter of the law in
regards to Apathy. I expect a howl of protest that it's against the spirit of
Apathy, but for now, it's legal, like it or not.]

    A Withering Curse powered by the Count will have a power above 30, which
should reduce any rival's Personalities to cinders. Plague of Demons is equally
devastating if your rivals have any non-Huge Places. If they don't, you'll have
to blast your own New York - aim for devastation with the first shot, if you
have an Annual Convention on hand. Remember to draw 1 plot whenever you blow
something up, (or 2 if you have Hitler's Brain).

    Whether you blow up your own place or your rivals, an Annual Convention with
30-odd power should be able to take care of most organizations, even at the core
of your rival's power structures. If you get your Hat Trick, just copy the kind
of Instant attack that there seems to be available targets for. If a rival group
looks like it could chip in some serious power to the defense against the Annual
Convention, then target that group - since targets of Instant attacks are not
allowed to spend their token.

    Once you're out of tokens - proceed to take your own turn! Do it all over
again, and this time you can also Truck Bomb something for added effect. If a
rival has Places/Personalities at the core of his power structure, you just
might take off all 4 arms. Destroying his Illuminati this way counts as a
destroyed group, both for your Goal and free plot draw.

    All of this destruction should put victory within reach. Hopefully your Hail
Eris will crop up by itself, but otherwise, a Crop Circle played on your free
draw for destroying something will do the trick. W.I.T.C.H. will count double
all by itself. St. Janor can count too, if he gets a power up, gets the
Necronomicon (unless the Count got it first), or by getting the Dittoheads as
his puppet. End of the World will make the Reformed Church of Satan count double
(as will the Necronomicon), and will make the Dittoheads count if they are a
puppet of St. Janor's.

    With 2 or 3 groups counting double, and a lot of destroyed groups on your
discard pile, your victory should be secure.

Potential Problems

    If you lose Dracula, then W.I.T.C.H. and St. Janor Hypercleats can both
reach pretty high power, and should be able to do Cthulhu's good work if they
work together. If somebody looks like they can put a dent in Dracula - play it
safe.

    W.I.T.C.H. is a very good group to control, since one of the few ways to
ruin your attacks is to modify the die-rolls.

    If your rivals bring neither Places nor Personalities to the game, you can
still make a fair impact on their power structures. Target New York for repeated
devastation in order to bring your Annual Conventions to bear. Truck Bombs are
Truck Bombs - they should work fine no matter what.

    If forced into a seppuku solution, be sure to have Hitler's Brain in play.

    Don't lose your goal! Don't have it on hand, unless you are ready to win.

Variants and Substitutions

    The core of the deck is made up by a high-powered Magic group, and the
Instant attacks. If you make up your own version, just consider that each and
every one of the groups serves a specific function.

    I really wanted to make room for a Hat Trick, but I just couldn't. X-day was
my number one choice if something should be cut.

    If creating another version of another deck, you may consider these cards
that narrowly missed inclusion in this version: Backfire, Backmasquerade,
Sufficiently Advanced Technology, Cover of Darkness, Double Cross, Logic Bomb,
Shordurpersav and Unlucky 13.

    You can create variant based around other goals than the basic goal. Hand of
Madness is obvious; add a Rewriting History, and replace Hitler's Brain With
Bjorne. Bjorne can be taken over, receive the Pro Sports link, and be
assassinated for 6 easy plots!

    Power for its Own Sake is also possible to achieve. Add an extra power up
and another big group, and it shouldn't be too hard to hit 50 power.

    Cthulhu will be pleased. Enjoy.

Back to Deck of the Week
