Fun'Damentalists
by Martin Laerkes

The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the
selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he who, in the name of charity
and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is
truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike
down with great vengeance and furious anger upon those who attempt to poison and
destroy my brothers. And you will know my name is the Lord when I lay my
vengeance upon thee.
Card Data
Illuminati:

    Society of Assassins

Groups:

    Church of Violentology
    Citizens for Normalcy
    Dagobert
    False Prophets
    Glorps
    Moral Minority
    Nutrition Nazis
    Professional Sports
    Pyramid Marketing Schemes
    Reformed Church of Satan
    TV Preachers
    Vatican City

Resources:

    Center for Weird Studies
    The Frog God

Plots:

    Agent in Place
    The Big Sellout
    Charismatic Leader
    Citizenship Award
    Crusade
    Deasil Engine
    Decency is OK!
    Full Moon x2
    Grassroots Support
    Hat Trick x2
    Hit and Run
    Jihad x2
    Just Say No
    Messiah
    More Slack!
    Pizza for the Secret Meeting
    Privileged Attack
    Savings & Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    School Prayer
    Truck Bomb
    NWO: End of the World x2
    NWO: Fear and Loathing x2
    Goal: Power for its Own Sake
    Goal: Science Cannot Remove the Terror of the Gods

Strategy
Playing the Society of Assassins

    If you want to get the most from your Assassins Illuminati, its goal and
special ability, then two deck archetypes present themselves: The Secret deck
and the Fanatic deck. Needless to say, the all-Secret deck is the number one
choice for Assassins power gaming! Here I will instead take a closer look at the
"all" Fanatic deck.

    With a Fanatic deck, you get the chance to combine groups into a deck that
is only viable to the Assassins - but unfortunately there are only around 30
Fanatic groups to choose from. Still, the benefits are great: the free global
power will give you the defensive capabilities of a normal monochromatic deck,
but you will also be able to interfere with virtually any attack - putting you
in a good bargaining position. On top of this, rival Fanatic groups cannot
easily target you, because you can change the allegiance of your Fanatic groups.

    Remember two things when choosing the groups for your deck: first off, you
are not restricted to just Fanatic groups, because any group with good global
power will fit into your deck just fine. Secondly, low power non-Fanatic groups
are also useful, because they can still be defended by your other groups. The
Big Prawn can also turn any Coastal place Fanatic, and if you are really
reaching, General Disorder can be made Fanatic by a Rewriting History while he
is dead.

    As for power cards, you have a few: End of the World will increase your
power greatly, and reduce that of your powerful rivals. Full Moon will reload
your entire deck - a game-winning card. "Power-up" plots are also great value
for money, because they also increase your global power - giving you, in effect,
a free Hidden Influence plot each time you play them.

    Which brings me to the goals. With power-ups being so good for you, the
Power for its Own Sake goal is an obvious choice. But there is another great
choice for you - the much less used "control x, destroy y" goals. With your huge
amounts of global power, you should be able to target any rival group that will
fit into your destructive pattern, and hopefully your attacks will attract a lot
less attention than when a Cthulhu player goes on a killing spree.

The Ploy

    The basic premise was simply to build a deck that maximizes the benefits of
playing an "all" fanatic assassins deck. Going through the cards, I quickly
discovered that there no other single alignment that has more Churches available
to it than the Fanatic alignment - which is perfect for the x/y goal Science
Cannot Remove the Terror of the Gods. This coincided rather neatly with my plans
for building strong decks around the six SubGenius goals. Checking out the goal,
I also noticed (for the first time) that this goal actually requires one less
group to be controlled than all the other x/y goals.

    The Church-heavy, predominantly Straight, all Fanatic Fun'damentalist deck
was born.

Opening Game

    Your main lead is Professional Sports backed up by the TV Preachers, both of
which give you a little extra power in the slurping department. However, with a
Messiah or a power-up on your plot hand, you may want to alter that choice.
Also, you should probably lead with the Vatican City against Shangri-La.

    With any of your two standard leads, chances are that you'll have more
Straight Fanatic groups on your opening hand, so be sure to slurp one up on your
first turn

    Center for Weird Studies should go into play ASAP, while the Frog God is
better kept in reserve; if a rival seems likely to beat you to the victory, your
Frog God may very well break up that game winning privileged attack.

Midgame

    Your strategy is to a large extent decided by which goal card comes into
your hand first. However, a good game plan is to start by going for Power for
Its Own Sake (by slurping away, thus keeping up with the competition in a fast
game) and then switch to Science Cannot Remove the Terror of the Gods if you
take a beating, or the game turns into a long one.

    Your Straight Fanatic groups are your key groups. They can be taken over
pretty easily, and add to the power of both Moral Minority and Pyramid Marketing
Schemes. PMS is also easy to take over, but get a nice increase in stats once
part of your power structure - just don't bring it out too early. With a bunch
of Straight Fanatic groups, Moral Minority, Pyramid Marketing Schemes, some
power-ups, potentially the Messiah, and perhaps an End of the World in play -
you can achieve Power for Its Own sake with very few groups out.

    When building your power structure, try to have your Churches at the core,
so any losses you suffer will be non-Church groups. Don't bring all your
Churches into play right away - it might just give you away your emergency
contingency.

    As for defense, you should have a lot of power - and your +10's can also be
used for defense if all else fails. Remember that if your defenses are going to
fail, try to play your cards so that a non-Church group takes the fall. Full
Moon can also prove a great defensive card if used for armadillo: Just take your
extra actions and sit back - you should be very hard to attack, and if no
attacks come your way, you can buy yourself a lot of plot cards when your next
turn comes around. School Prayer can be used to more or less deprive a
predominantly Conservative/Liberal rival of his turn.

Endgame

    Whether your endgame is for PfIOS or SCRtTotG, Full Moon will likely play a
key part, along with your NWO's. Big Sellout, More Slack and Center for Weird
Studies are all there, along with the Hat Tricks, to allow you to power 1 (or
more) Full Moon card(s) on your final turn. With End of the World and/or Fear
and Loathing in play, you should be able to make your tokens count for
something.

    If your goal cards are buried deep in your stack, take pride in ruining your
rivalsâ€™ attacks - and be sure to help any attempt to bring down the leader. As
mentioned, your Frog God will help you in a game like this - and might even buy
your way to a shared victory.

    If you are out to destroy the pesky Church/Science groups of your rivals,
you should (as always) try not to be to obvious about it. You should be able to
destroy one without anyone taking notice, as long as you don't have all 5
churches out yet. Perhaps your Pizza for the Secret Meeting will bring you into
a position to attack the hated Clone Arrangers - everybody will help get rid of
that one.

    For the second (or subsequent) attack, your Truck Bomb, Assassination and
Privileged Attack may come in handy - and Nutrition Nazis (played as a plot) can
make an 'easy to get at' rival group count towards your goal. Just be careful -
once you've played Nutrition Nazis the cat is out of the bag, and you will
probably face a lot of opposition.

    If, for any reason, your rivals figure out which goal you are going for -
deny everything, and lie about how many groups you need to destroy. With a
little luck they don't know about the 1 group discount on Science Cannot Remove
the Terror of the Gods.

    Shangri-La and SubGenius players are likely to use Science/Church groups, so
hit them if they open themselves to attack, or point out the need for a
concerted effort if they are doing well. SubGenius Churches can be targeted by
Glorps, while any peaceful Shangri-La groups will make good Truck Bombing
targets.

    If your rivals bring neither Church nor Science groups to the game, then
SCRtTotG will be unachievable! The deck does not include a seppuku option,
because I find the tactic positively appalling.

Variants & Substitutions

    The deck includes very few rare cards and no ultra rares (although Dagobert
and Pyramid Marketing Schemes are fairly hard to get).

    The deck was designed under 'max two of each plot' rules, so if you don't
play like that, replace the Hat Tricks with a Full Moon and an End of the World.
As for the rare plots: if Messiah goes, then so perhaps should Dagobert. Big
Sellout could be replaced by another More Slack! - and if you don't have Power
for Its Own sake, you should probably add a Straight Conservative Church or two,
remove Pyramid Marketing Schemes, and use Let Them Eat Cake as a backup goal.

    Finally, School Prayer and Decency is OK! are both in the deck for the style
points - they can be replaced with something more powerful if you like.

    In the group deck, Church of Violentology, one of the two rares, can be
easily be replaced. Nutrition Nazis is not essential, and is probably best
replaced with a plot card (S&LS or something for attacking). Dagobert and
Pyramid Marketing Schemes are not crucial to the deck, and could be replaced by
another personality or high power card respectively.

    When making substitutions, stick to Fanatic groups or possibly Straight
Conservative ones, both of which will fit deck and theme rather well. Seppuku
cards are of course also an option, if you really want them - if you do,
remember that secret groups may also double as two groups towards your basic
goal. A Fanatic group with an awful lot of firepower is the German card
Autonome.

    It is very feasible to remove a few of the non-Straight Fanatic groups, and
put in Church of Middle America and Religious Reich. This will give you more
churches to choose from, while retaining your good deck coherency. Again, Let
Them Eat Cake might then become an interesting option.

    [Editorâ€™s notes: the +10 cards are always nice (particularly for
interference), and Iâ€™d perhaps weasel another one or two in, despite no extra
need for them during my playtesting. A couple of the plots may seem to be there
more for the â€˜style pointsâ€™ than usefulness, but remember that your Center for
Weird Studies can always turn those less-effective cards into tokens.]

Back to Deck of the Week
