Gay Space Vampires
by Martin Laerkes

For Deck of the Week #69, it only seemed appropriate, if a bit sophomoric, to go
for a deck that perpetuated the entendre...

What if I were to tell you that our beloved and trusted politicians have in fact
lived for hundreds of years, and require human blood to feed their eternal
hunger - unlikely you say?

What if I then told you that these same people were not even born on this earth,
but have traveled the far reaches of space in search of new prey, and finally
found it on Earth - still doubting me?

And finally, what is your reaction when I tell you that the only reason they
haven't overrun our lovely planet is the fact that they don't produce any
offspring..â€¦

Yes - it all falls into place now doesn't it? They are gay space vampires!

Card Data
Illuminati:

    UFOs

Groups:

    Bill Clinton
    Clone Arrangers
    Dan Quayle
    Gay Activists
    George Bush
    Margaret Thatcher
    Nancy Reagan
    Princess Di
    Professional Sports
    Ronald Reagan
    Ross Perot
    Stonehenge
    Vampires

Resources:

    Black Helicopters
    Book of Kells
    Center for Weird Studies
    Flying Saucer
    Perpetual Motion Machine
    Suicide Squad

Plots:

    The Big Sellout
    NWO Yellow: Bigger Business
    Celebrity Spokesman x2
    Cover-Up
    Crop Circles x2
    Dollars for Decency
    Double-Cross
    Hail Eris x2
    Harmonica Virgins
    Just Say No
    NWO Yellow: Law & Order x2
    Let's Get Really Organized x2
    Read My Lips x2
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Seize the Time
    Straighten Up
    Voodoo Economics x2

Strategy
Your Illuminati

    So - our world is governed by a coven of gay space vampires - and you are at
the helm.

    The UFO's were chosen as illuminati for this deck, primarily because the
deck was designed as a themed deck, and putting "space" in the gay space
vampires title, would make it sound even more like an old sci-fi movie. On a
more technical note, your 2 illuminati tokens will be valuable for drawing extra
groups, taking over resources, and powering some essential plots. 

The Ploy

    Primarily - this deck allows you to use a lot of personalities (and the
excellent Read My Lips), without getting them shot to ribbons - because they are
all immortal Vampires.

    Your main advantage is a power structure that doesn't look powerful, and
which doesn't work toward an obvious special goal - hopefully keeping your
rivals off your back. Luckily for you, all is not what it seems. In fact you
have a pretty big, though "hidden", control bonus, which combines well with
token spawning capabilities, privileged attacks, and a goal card that lets 3 gay
space vampires count as 2 groups each. 

Opening Game

    You lead with the Vampires, which will never bounce (trust me), and your
first priorities are to make them straight, and get them Really Organized.
Hopefully you will get some of the appropriate plots, or a Crop Circles in your
initial draw. Remember that the Crop Circles can also be used to get Ross Perot,
whose special ability is an alternative way of making the Vampires straight.

    During your first few turns, spend your ATO on non-personalities, while
using UFO tokens for drawing groups and grabbing resources (not the Black
Helicopters though). The resources are all very popular, and you probably won't
get them all - save the ones you don't get for powering the big sellout - one
way or the other, these resources will give you extra action tokens. Don't link
any resources to the Vampires - it might give you away. 

Midgame

    Your power structure should be comprised of your organizations (except the
Gay Activists), and Ross Perot. Preferably he should be a Vampire, but if this
seems unlikely to achieve, ATO him, and protect him from assassinations with the
Flying Saucer and the Clone Arrangers.

    Don't bring out the Stonehenge unless magic assassinations seem likely.

    When organizing your power structure, place Ross and the Clone Arrangers on
non-adjacent UFO control arrows, and let Professional Sports be puppets of the
Vampires in order to let their +4 control bonus affect the secret Vampires. Pro
Sports will also add a little power to Ross, protecting him further from
trigger-happy assassins.

    While setting up your victory grab, don't flaunt your control bonus, or your
token producing resources, and don't antagonize anybody. Just be diplomatic
-your pathetic power structure shouldn't attract unwanted attention, but if it
does, your secret groups should be hard to attack, and Ross Perot can be
protected by Read My Lips. 

Endgame

    Once you've completed the objectives of opening and mid-game, you need as
much of your group deck on hand as possible - Gay Activists and Black
Helicopters are especially important.

    Your ATO should be Gay Activists placed as a puppet of Ross Perot.

    From here you have 2 ploys that can be combined to bring you victory:
        "Children of the Night": if your power structure is organized well, the
Vampires should have a massive +20 to control your straight conservative
personalities - so reorganize resources (prior to placing action tokens) and
play plot cards, in order to give them as many action tokens as possible.
Spending a UFO token to grab Black Helicopters will make all these attacks
privileged.
        "Out of the Closet": Once again by relying on resources and plots, you
should be able to give the Gay Activists 3 action tokens. By first reversing the
straight alignment of 3 space vampires to weird, and then using any of the power
boosting plots (5 in all) and the Pro Sports link, they should all count towards
Hail Eris. 

Cards and Substitutions

    The deck has 21 common cards, 18 uncommon, 5 rare, and 0 ultra rares. It was
designed without the use of cards from the SubGenius set. Only Vampires, GOAL:
Hail Eris and Gay Activists are absolutely essential to the deck, and neither of
these are rare.

    Ross Perot and the Black Helicopters are the important rare cards, the deck
simply won't run as smoothly without them. That being said - they aren't
absolutely necessary.

    The deck was designed for use with the basic goal set at 13 - so if you are
playing to less, you could remove a group or 2, and add plots instead. Forgery
would be useful - as would any plot that lets you draw more plots. 

Potential Problems

    If the vampires bounce, you are in trouble. Lead with Ross Perot, and spend
UFO tokens for drawing extra groups - hoping to be the first to get the Vampires
on the table. Alternatively - you could let the Clone Arrangers play the part of
the Vampires - but leading with the Clone Arrangers is never popular.

    If by some miracle your rivals see through your ruse, deny everything, and
then take a shot at victory. With the right plot hand this deck can move
terribly fast. Don't wait it out!

    If your rivals start tearing at you for real, your defenses may hold for a
turn - but in essence, this is not a defensive deck.

    But not to worry. With a little luck, your rivals won't see through your
scheme until, you have amassed enough tokens to make you - and your undead alien
homosexuals - well nigh unstoppable. 

Variants and Substitutions

    Your editor here, to mention a few other possibilities. Martin's deck was
designed to avoid rares (and is a pre-SubGenius deck), but I'd feel remiss if I
didn't mention a few alternates. Immortality Serum is always a nice touch as a
semi-free takeover of a Personality (and Alien Abduction as well, since a UFO
token is now required). Martin stresses that both will suck some token from an
already tuned strategy, but you might want to make an extra push on your victory
turn, and one or two "extra" groups above the goal are always nice.

    Enjoy. 

Back to Deck of the Week
