
No One is Safe
by Seth Cohen

This is week one of CthulhuCon - decks featuring the Servants of Cthulhu and the
Annual Convention plot. As much a showcase for deck-building philosophies as
decks themselves, we hope you'll find the compare/contrast exercise beneficial!
Card Data
Illuminati:

    Servants of Cthulhu

Groups:

    Advanced Supersonic Aluminum Nazi Hell Creatures from Beneath the Hollow
Earth
    BATF
    CIA
    Clone Arrangers
    Dinosaur Park
    FBI
    General Disorder
    Loan Sharks
    The Mafia
    Manuel Noriega
    New York
    Pentagon
    Semiconscious Liberation Army
    Texas

Resources:

    Cyborg Soldiers
    Necronomicon
    Perpetual Motion Machine

Plots:

    Annual Convention x2
    Back to the Salt Mines
    The Big Score
    Bribery
    Combined Disasters
    Flesh-Eating Bacteria
    Goal: Criminal Overlords
    Giant Kudzu x2
    Hoax
    Martial Law
    Murphy's Law
    Near Miss
    New Blood
    NWO: Australian Rules
    NWO: Gun Control
    Power Grab
    Savings & Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time
    Sucked Dry and Cast Aside x2
    Terrorist Nuke x2
    Truck Bomb x2

Strategy
Introduction

    This deck is an attempt to get at a very difficult player to hit: a INWO
player who uses no Personalities or Places. After losing to those decks a few
too many times, I thought to myself "There must be a way to hit back." This deck
is the result of such planning.

    The Groups in your deck are pretty interchangeable. I selected for
high-powered Violent Groups; this meant that many of them were also Government
and/or Criminal. No problem, as it helps you take over the Groups more quickly.
Groups with special abilities that are quite useful in this deck include the
Nazi Hell Creatures, Dinosaur Park, and General Disorder. Most of the others get
put to good use, no fear...but those three are particularly useful. If someone
else gets them, take 'em away or blow 'em up. There's a lot of Groups compared
to some decks...but that's alright...they'll be Agents to help you in your
appetite for destruction. And if you're worried about rolling 12's, the
Necronomicon can be replaced by a second Cyborg Soldiers, or a Giant Kudzu if
you've got it.

    As for your plots, the only ones that are absolutely necessary are Annual
Convention and Truck Bomb. Without those, you can't target Organizations...and
without targeting Organizations, you're just another Cthulhu deck. The plots
that are there are useful, but you can surely find others that are your
favorites that you can fit in, removing some of the others as needed. Certainly
Flesh-Eating Bacteria can be replaced by another less-rare Disaster.

Beginning the Game

    Lead New York. Why not? It's big, powerful, and useful for your schemes. If
it bounces, you've deprived someone else of it! Try the Clone Arrangers, or the
Pentagon, or the CIA, or Texas...whatever works for you! It may depend on what
Illuminati you're up against. If you're up against another Cthulhu, lead an
Organization. If you're up against the Society of Assassins, they're going to be
able to take the Clone Arrangers away from you, even if you get it first. Maybe
it's better for laterâ€¦

    Enjoy your first turn, while no one can attack you. It might be the last
chance to breathe easy. Save your plots for your defense in the early part of
the game, because you'll need them once your opponents realize how hungry this
deck is.

Midgame

    You've got two choices: be obvious, or subtle. Raising your hand to your
mouth, waggling your fingers and moaning sepulchrally in your best Cthulhu
imitation every time you do an action may cause your opponents to wish to do you
damage. Or they might giggle helplessly. The first time you pull out a Annual
Convention or Truck Bomb they won't be surprised. They won't expect it a second
time, though.

    Since you're not heavy on Disasters, you'll be making Attacks to Destroy
from your regular Groups. Obviously, if you've got General Disorder out, use him
to soften up the target with one attack and follow it up with a second. Make
them fight off a Giant Kudzu with the General aiding, and then they won't be
able to fight off the follow-up Disaster. The General is also your only Weird
Science Group, so he'll be your only card that can interfere in an Annual
Convention. You might want to save a +10 for him to make the attack especially
destructive. Make sure you have the Nazi Hell Creatures help out in the attacks,
and _make sure_ you take the extra plots. You'll use them.

    Also, if someone's gotten ahead of you in the game by growing faster, make
deals. Have the others help you take him apart. Foment dissention in the ranks.
Don't just sit there...you can cause a lot more trouble than you think. Role
play it, if you need to... ("What would Cthulhu do in a situation like this?")

    Destroying your own groups? Not very effective, you might say? Well, don't
forget that if your opponents don't have any Places, you won't be able to use
those Disasters on them. So...nuke one of your own Places...they probably won't
stop you, unless you're about to win. "Hey, Cthulhu's blowing himself up!"
"Cool, let's watch!" When the Annual Convention comes out, it's a
double-taste-treat! Your place counts for your Goals, and by golly, so does
their Group! Doesn't that make you feel all warm & happy inside? I thought it
would.

Endgame

    Well, you've made it to the end. Everyone's tired of you making that
annoying Cthulhu noise, and you've destroyed one too many of the groups that
they were planning to use. C'est la vie. You should have had plenty of
opportunities to take over your groups (and theirs, if they put out the right
alignments for you to gobble), and to destroy theirs and yours. You hopefully
used your NWOs to good effect, first with the Australian Rules to make everyone
happy and destructive, and then with Gun Control to make New York really spiffy
for that Truck Bomb action. Hopefully, you had the chance to re-use Back to the
Salt Mines and Flesh-Eating Bacteria a couple of times. Perhaps you're in range
of the Basic Goal with Cthulhu's special Goal added into the mix...or perhaps
you've got lots of Criminals out and you've headed to becoming a Criminal
Overlord. Doesn't it feel good as you take over the world, crushing the others
beneath your evil heel? Smile, you've just been eaten by the Servants of
Cthulhu.

Potential Problems

    This deck isn't high on defense. Granted, many of the groups have like
alignments (aiding with attacks to control). You've got 5 +10 cards (not
including Back to the Salt Mines), as well as 2 Sucked Dry & Cast Aside (if you
can't have it, neither can they...), Murphy's Law, Hoax, Near Miss, and Secrets
Man Was Not Meant To Know. It's also light on Disasters...only 3 in the entire
deck. Don't discard your Combined Disasters...you'll need it. However, you might
want to replace it with another Disaster before you build the deck.

    You also can't defend your Resources. You've only got three, and none of
them are crucial. Bring out enough Violent Groups and you'll get by...but the
Truck Bomb really needs that single Violent Group action. Try to keep at least
one powerful Violent Group around.

    How would your opponents get rid of you? Well, they'll have to beat you
down. It's not like you can look at their plots and see what they've got in
store for you. Just do your best, and the deck will do the rest.

    Finally, if this didn't do it for you, by golly, there's nothing else you
can do except try another Cthulhu deck. Might I recommend Thule for a Day, King
for a Lifetime? Or perhaps Blunt Trauma? Or Fusion Seppuku? Go on, have fun!
Blow things up! (grin)

Variants/Substitutions

    [Editor here. I'm actually not going to give you much here, as many of my
thoughts will be addressed by the next several DotWs during CthulhuCon. Plan on
comparing this deck to the next similarly-themed DotWs, and adjust them as you
desire. - Alex]

Back to Deck of the Week
