8. Challengers: Meet The New Boss (Same As The Old Boss)

As powerful, dominating Challengers, you are self-confident, decisive, willful,
and confrontational. You are the natural lords of the Earth, and you're not
going to let anyone forget it.

Role Models

It takes guts and determination to be a leader, qualities you have in spades.
With you at the helm, your people will do well - you just need an opportunity to
show your mettle, like the generals and statesmen of the 1940s. Sure, some may
suffer - and not every leader can be a winner, so some of the casualties will
come from your own ranks - but that's what the great game is all about, right?
After all, you can't make an omelet without breaking eggs . . .

Most Likely To Say:

"Who is the boss of you? I am the boss of you."
"If you can't beat 'em, you're not one of us."
"Some of you may die, but it's a sacrifice I am willing to make."

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        The Bavarian Illuminati
    Groups
        Bill Clinton
        Clone Arrangers
        Count Dracula
        George Bush
        I.R.S.
        Manuel Noriega
        Margaret Thatcher
        MI-5
        N.S.A.
        NATO
        OPEC
        Post Office
        Ronald Reagan
        Russia
        Saddam Hussein
        Secret Service
        Vampires
        Clipper Chip
        Flying Saucer
        Hammer of Thor
        Immortality Serum
        Mercenaries
    Plots
        Assertiveness Training
        Bodyguard
        Celebrity Spokesman
        Censorship
        Emergency Powers
        Epidemic
        Head in a Jar
        Ketchup is a Vegetable
        Martial Law
        Messiah
        Mistaken Identity
        Mutual Betrayal
        Nationalization
        New Federal Budget
        Read My Lips
        Revolution!
        Senate Investigating Committee
        Sweepstakes Prize
        Talisman of Ahrimanes
        Goal: Up Against the Wall
        NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
        NWO: Tax Reform

Strategy

This is a Violent Government deck, but uncommonly for Bavaria you have plenty of
Personalities. You also have the resources and plots to help them get you what
you need, such as Celebrity Spokesman and Messiah. You are powerful enough to go
for Bavaria's goal so long as you can get the Clipper Chip legislation past
Congress, and you also have the option of destroying Government groups (possibly
including your own) when Up Against The Wall. Lead with Bill Clinton, and don't
look back.

Variants and Substitutions

Alien Abduction gets your people out there, OverMan, Dittoheads, Martyr Meter,
and The 13th Apostle make them more effective, while Sudden European Vacation
and Official, Divine, All-Inclusive Excuse help protect them. Rant and S.C.A.M.
are also useful. Good cards to drop include Count Dracula, Vampires,
Mercenaries, Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, OPEC, MI-5, Ketchup is a
Vegetable, and
Censorship.