SMWNMTK
Deck of the Week #88
Whispered by Martin LÃ¦rkes

Unknown to the average person, the illuminati are at work behind the scenes of
the ordinary world, wielding unbelievable power and arranging conincidences. All
those unspeakable things are the secrets man was not meant to know, and precious
few know those secrets. Those who speak don't know, and those who know don't
speak.

Playing the Deck

The Plan
Well, as the contest guidelines said, the idea was to create a deck using the
resource The Nine Unknown Men from the completely non-existent INWO expansion
Bavarian Fire Drill. The unique resource powers or removes any zap, paralyze or
freeze by using its token, so it makes around 40 or so cards more playable. I
considered a deck using the zap Security Leak and League for Obvious Decency to
shut down a rivals plots entirely, or a deck using almost exclusively paralyzes,
and NPCs to prevent your rivals from removing them. However, in the end I went
with an old idea of mine, nicknamed Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know.

The idea is simple: When you take over secret groups from hand, only secret
groups and illuminati can interfere. So, if you can make sure that there are
only a few illuminati tokens and secret groups out there, there is little your
rivals can do to stop you. In fact, if you play Let the Sunshine In, no secret
groups may act, cutting the opposition down to just illuminati tokens (and no
pesky +10s). Let the Sunshine in would naturally also stop your own secret
groups from attacking in the first place, but you can work your way around this
by using the few non-secret groups that can attack secret groups.

The 9 Unknown Men are not instrumental to the deck - you could build one without
it. But it does allow you to play some zaps and paralyzes that will have your
rivals spend their illuminati tokens, and it can also power your Let the
Sunshine In. Not bad.

The Illuminati
Adepts of Hermes were chosen for their +6 bonus to control magic groups.

Opening Game
Your lead depends on your opening hand of plots, but it should be one of your 5
non-secret groups, preferably St. Janor, Dracula or W.I.T.C.H.. It is a key
objective to not get attacked, if at all possible, so play conservatively. Keep
defense cards in your hand, hoping to repel any incoming attacks. For defense,
Secret Master is best on Dracula, while Overman is best on St. Janor, since this
will make him count double towards Hail Eris. Try to sneak in an extra group
draw early if you can - you probably need your whole group deck before you are
ready to slurp.

Midgame
Your objective is to get all 5 non-secret groups into play. You have very few
control arrows, so be careful when you make your ATOs, since you need open
arrows on all your slurpers for your final turn. Start with Dracula, St. Janor
and W.I.T.C.H. Druids should be second to last, as a puppet of W.I.T.C.H. - your
final ATO should be Junk Mail. Place it as a puppet of Druids. This will
probably alert your rivals to the fact that something is up. And indeed
something is.
	

The Deck

    Illuminati: Adepts of Hermes

    Cattle Mutilators

    Count Dracula

    Druids

    Junk Mail

    Rosicrucians

    St. Janor Hypercleats

    Templars

    Vampires

    W.I.T.C.H.

    The 9 Unknown Men*

    Center for Weird Studies

    Necronomicon

    Giant Kudzu x2

    Goal: Hail Eris x2

    Gremlins

    Harmonica Virgins x2

    Let the Sunshine In x2

    Miraculous Manifestations

    More Slack!

    NWO: Global Warming x2

    NWO: Gun Control x2

    NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State

    ...Or Kill Me!

    Official, Divine, All-Inclusive Excuse x2

    Overman x2

    Power Grab

    Save the Whales

    Savings & Loan Scam x2

    School Prayer

    Secret Master

    SMWNMTK

    Seize the Time!

    Sorry, Wrong Number

    Sudden European Vacation

    Waiting Period

Your second midgame objective is to have your rivals spend illuminati tokens on
the turn prior to your victory grab. You have lots of plots to encourage them to
do this, like the lovely Giant Kudzu, but a concerted attack against a rivals
secret group might also be a good idea, and will knock out a secret group in the
process. Gremlins can also bounce back a good resource like the OMCLs,
motivating the rival to spend an illuminati token to take it over ASAP.

If you do not have your goal when the time comes, then your plan will have to
change slightly. ATO Rosicrucians instead of Junk Mail, dig for your goal, and
then wait a turn before unleashing your slurpy surprise.

End Game
With Junk Mail in place, the time has come for your all or nothing move.
Hopefully there is only 1, or even 0, illuminati tokens out there. Secret groups
can be kept out of this turn by using Let the Sunshine In or possibly even a
paralyze (or Gremlins on NSA). Now all you have to do is slurp from hand. Due to
your illuminati and Junk Mail, you have a massive +11 bonus to control secret
magic groups, and the bonus applies to all your non-secret attacking groups.
So, St. Janor will be at 13 to take the Rosicrucians. Dracula will be at 19 to
take the Vampires. Junk Mail will be at 11 to take the Cattle Mutilators. If
someone interferes, then note that Druids can interfere with any attack on a
magic group - even a secret one - so with either Global Warming or Harmonica
Virgins, they should be able to get the attack back on track.
Also, naturally, W.I.T.C.H. can change a failed roll by 2.

Finally, Adepts can try to control the Templars ("13 or less"), take over the
Necronomicon, or help an attack which is failing. With Center for Weird Studies
or More Slack! they may even do 2 of these things. If all went well, you have
slurped a lot of groups, and should be very close to your goal. You may already
be there. Note that it may be a good idea to spend Hermes token before attacking
with St. Janor, so a roll of a natural 2 by Janor can not cost you an illuminati
token.

The last element to your victory is Hail Eris. W.I.T.C.H. counts, as will Cattle
Mutilators with Gun Control, St. Janor with Overman, and/or Vampires (or one of
the others) with the Necronomicon. Notice that if you had to play Secret Master
on St. Janor to save him from an attack, you can make him weird again by making
him a puppet of something other than your illuminati. This will make the Secret
Master permanently illegal, and force you to discard it.

Potential Problems
Well, it's a pretty risky leap towards victory. Hopefully your rivals won't see
it coming. If you've set things up right, it's a big leap - possibly too big to
anticipate. But this deck is a big gamble. It can take losing a group or 2, but
more than that and you're going down the tube. Hey - who said world domination
was easy?

Also note that without its goal, this deck will only go to 11 groups, meaning
that it is probably best suited for a 4 player game.

Variants and Substitutions
The Adepts of Hermes probably isn't the only way to set up a SMWNMTK-slurper.
Library at Alexandria and Junk mail will give a +11 bonus against a lot of
Secret Groups, making it possible to maybe build a Network or UFO version of the
deck. A secret group or 2 in your power structure will also allow you more
attacks, and possibly the Black Helicopters, but it will make Let the Sunshine
in harder to fit into the deck.
Naturally, a deck without unofficial cards can't use The 9 Unknown Men, in which
case Library at Alexandria is probably be your best substitute. Those extra +5
to every attack should make it even harder for your rivals to prevent your
attacks.

A cute alternative SMWNMTK slurper relies on Church of the SubGenius. Create a
deck that does little but accumulate illuminati tokens. Then use these tokens to
take over lots of secret groups in one fell swoop.

As always, have
fun.