The Sacred Asprin Commercial

A Discordia/Shangri-La deck by Mad Chris

For the origin of this name, see 'A Sermon on Ethics and Love', Principia
Discordia, p38.

The Sacred Aspirin Commercial is a varient on a standard Discordia isolationist
deck which essentially is designed to look like a Discordian isolationist deck
until you Unmask as Shangri-La and win instantly. This can be a problem with
other Shangri-La players, since they may win before you can, and hence you
should adjust your strategy accordingly if someone else is playing Shangri-La.

By far the best way to build this deck is to ignore the listing I give and
modify an existing isolationist deck that other people have seen to include
enough of the appropriate cards to allow you to use the Shangi-La schtick to
win. The basic tenet of this deck (along with many INWO decks) is surprise, and
if your cover is blown you will suffer for it. To this end, the more effective
you are at convincing the other players that you are playing an isolationist
deck, the better.
Illuminati

Discordian Society (with Shangri-La in your Plots deck once or twice).
Groups

    Bj√∏rne
    Church of Elvis
    Elvis
    Goldfish Fanciers
    Japan
    Red Cross
    Reformed Church of Satan
    Religious Reich
    Stonehenge
    Supreme Court
    Vatican City x 2

plus one duplicate of either Bjorne or Elvis, according to your own personal
tastes and one other group of your choice. Go for something with a cute special
ability, and preferably something that is Peaceful, or at the very least, not
Violent.
Resources

    Crystal Skull
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers

Plots

    Bodyguard x 2
    Early Warning x 2
    Kinder & Gentler x 4
    Martyrs x 2
    Messiah
    Nobel Peace Prize x 3
    Peace In Our Time x 2
    Savings & Loan Scam x 2
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know x 2
    Shangri-La x 2
    The Big Sellout
    Unmasked x 2

Bluff Plots

    Military-Industrial Complex x 2
    Nationalization

Lead

Vatican City is a key card in this deck - it is used to provide protection, it's
an obvious isolationist card and it contributes to the Messiah subplot. However,
many decks also use Vatican City, so be careful. Usually, you should lead with
Vatican City and fall back on either Japan (if the people you are playing with
are fairly slow on the uptake) or your choice of Goldfish Fanciers, Supreme
Court or Stonehenge, according to which you think will be the best defence
against the other players. Play one of these latter cards if you think doing so
will convince everyone that you are playing an isolationist deck. Deception is
the key!
Why two Vaticans?

This is a key card to the deck, and you want to be able to protect it if it is
out (this is also why the Red Cross is in the deck, and two Early Warnings), or
have a good chance of stealing it off other people if they have it. Stealing the
Vatican helps further the image of you being an isolationist and not Shangri-La,
and is therefore a generally good idea most of the time.
Early Play

Don't give the game away! To this end, be very careful about using the following
cards in the early stages of the game:

    Kinder & Gentler
    Nobel Peace Prize
    Peace in Our Time

If you have got the Vatican in play, then you might be tempted to use the Kinder
& Gentler to protect yourself from the largest Power group in play, and to get
you on the way to your Shangri-La victory condition. Don't do it unless you
think you can get away with it convincingly! Ideally, you should play at least
one of your bluff cards before considering playing Kinder & Gentler.

Do not be tempted to play SMWNMTK unless it is absolutely necessary! These cards
exist only to protect the use of Unmasked in the Endgame.
Bluff Cards

These are cards to make you look like a standard isolationist deck. MIC will
protect you from Corporates, and Nationalisation will neutralise another group
in play. These cards are not useless (they will protect you from certain groups)
but you should make an effort to play these cards ASAP, to preserve the illusion
that you are being an isolationist.
Resources

The OMCL are there for defence (change groups to Governement or Straight) and
for victory (change a high power group to Peaceful). The Crystal Skull really
helps you get to the plot cards you need when you need them - which is an
important element of this deck design.
Mid-Game

By the mid-game, the peaceful Power total is probably starting to mount up, and
you can start working your way towards victory. It is at this stage of the game
that you want to use Savings and Loan Scams and your Action tokens to start
drawing plots. You need to get Unmasked and Shangri-La into your hand. The Big
Sellout should also be used now, to clear out dead Groups from your hand in
exchange for tokens. Use these tokens to draw more plots or save a token on
Discordia for the Endgame.

You may want to start using Kinder & Gentlers and Nobel Peace Prizes, if you
think you can get away with it without giving the game away.
The Messiah Sub-plot

By far the most satisfying way of winning with this deck is to use the Messiah
card. I often play with two Messiah cards and two Elvis cards (at the expense of
some of the general flotsom) because making Elvis the Messiah always appeals to
me (and because the boosted Church of Elvis is such a useful asset). The Messiah
sub-plot can become obvious, of course, as the Churches mount up. However, you
have a damn good reason for the Vatican, and with a little skill, you can
convince people that you are either:

    planning to kill Bjorne for cards or
    going for a Power For Its Own Sake goal card.

In general, you do not want to play the Messiah card until the last minute. It
has no cost, so the only thing to watch for is someone Secrets or Hoaxing it.
The Endgame

The perfect endgame happens when you have in your hand:

    Unmasked and Shangri-La
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know (to protect Unmasked from someone elses
Secrets or Hoax)
    A way of getting the "missing" peaceful Power, usually either a Kindler and
Gentler, a Nobel Peace Prize or the Messiah card.

Then, on your turn, you Unmask and then grab the extra peaceful power. As
mentioned, it is nice to do this by way of Messiah, if you can. Bjorne is
already peaceful and so does not present a problem. If you are doing it by Elvis
and do not have an OMCL on hand, you may have to Messiah first and make him
Peaceful to win with a Kinder and Gentler. Another useful Endgame card is Peace
in Our Time, which can give you the missing Power quite easily.

Don't forget that you can use your Martyrs to boost a group to help power a
Kinder And Gentler.
Is This a Dagger I see Before Me?

If there is another Shangri-La player in the game, you will need to keep them
under control. Get the rest of the players to work with you to keep the peaceful
Power down reasonably low. Ideally, you want to keep the Power to the point
where you don't think they can push it over the top in one turn, but you're
pretty sure you can.

Do not be tempted to play a Shangri-La card as an Agent. You could end up giving
the game away, or discarding a vital plot.
Strengths & Weaknesses

The Sacred Aspirin Commercial has several weaknesses. The first is that it
relies very much on the fact that your opponents don't see through your disguise
like a pair of grandma's underpants. It is for this reason why it is better to
modify an isolationist deck that other player's have already seen than to use
the deck template above - if the charade fails, the game is probably up. Second
is that it is actually quite difficult to win if you don't become Shangri-La.
Chances are - unless someone leaves a branch of their power structure vulnerable
- you won't win without Unmasking.

To compensate for this, there are several strengths. The first is that even
pretending to be isolationist is good defensively, and therefore you can often
find yourself having to worry only about other people getting to the goal before
you. The second is that the element of suprise is always an advantage, and the
more you make yourself seem like something you are not, the more likely you are
to slip in under their radar.

You may notice that the Strengths and Weaknesses are a little contradictary.
Deal with it.
Final Comments

Having read this far, you're probably either faintly interested, bored and
unimpressed or off out for pizza. Which you are probably depends on how your
group usually plays INWO, and how the people in your group use Unmasked. If
Unmasked sees a lot of use, this deck is probably a waste of time, unless they
usually use Unmasked as a way of getting in an extra option, rather than a
totally hidden goal.

If your group usually plays a very cut-throat game, with little deals and
agreements, this probably isn't the deck for you. If, like me, you usually find
half of your INWO game time is spent negotiating with the other players and
passing private notes, this deck should work for you fine. You can secretly
"confide" in people little pieces of information about your deck, and happily
mislead people away from your true goal.

One final word: don't be tempted to tighten up this deck too much. If it gets
too tight, people will work out what it's doing. A good Sacred Aspirin deck
should make no sense until you win.

Remember - Felicitas per Dementiam.

Mad Chris

Discordia Inc.

REMEMBER: KING KONG Died For Your Sins
Back to the Deck of the Week.
