The Superman Deck
by Martin LÃ¦rkes

Faster than a speeding bullet. More powerful than a locomotive. Able to leap to
victory in a single bound.
Card Data
Illuminati:

    Shangri-La

Groups:

    Church of Middle America
    Dittoheads
    Gay Activists
    Japan
    Lama Ramadingdong
    New York
    Princess Di

Resources:

    The Big Prawn
    Center for Weird Studies
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers

Plots:

    Attitude Mutation
    Charismatic Leader x2
    Citizenship Award x2
    Forgery
    Grassroots Support x2
    Goal: Arise!
    NWO: Chicken in Every Pot x3
    NWO: Law and Order x3
    NWO: Peace in Our Time x3
    Monopoly x2
    More Slack!
    Nobel Peace Prize x3
    Savings & Loans Scam x2
    Self Esteem x2
    X-Day
    Beach Party
    Good Polls
    NWO: Kinder and Gentler x3

Strategy
The Plan

    Shangri-La was my illuminati of choice back when I started playing INWO. At
first, I thought it very hard to reach 30 power, because only 1 Nobel Peace
Prize was allowed to be in play. Then my brother pointed out that any of the
power-ups will do, as long as you're using peaceful groups with multiple
alignments. If all your groups have power 6 (or more), then you can win with
very few groups in play.

    I believe that the goals that are independent of the basic goal ought to be
changed, because goals that let you win with very few groups on the table are
prone to abuse. It has been said in defence of these goals, that such 2-turn
speed monsters are not flawless, and if they are foiled, they have no way of
recovering.
    That is mostly true - but not when it comes to Shangri-La.

    The Superman deck can regularly achieve victory by turn 2. However, if this
is foiled, the deck is able to come back several times before finally giving up.

Opening Game

    Check out your 3 plots - hopefully you have a power-up, maybe even 2. If you
do have one, lead with a group that will be able to play that power-up. Your
likely leads are Princess Di, Lama Ramadingdong and Church of Middle America. I
prefer Di, then the Lama, because of the boost that they can get from
Dittoheads. Look out for rival green decks though - they could turn the Lama
into the top lead for you.

    If you don't have a power-up, then Japan is probably your best lead. Don't
bounce Japan! If there is a Network player present, who you know is likely to
lead with Japan, then let him have Japan! Remember, that's 6 points of power for
you right there in his power structure.

Midgame

    Your first ATO depends on your plot hand. Anything that can be boosted with
a power-up, or anything that matches an NWO on your hand is preferable. If you
have neither NWO or power-up, then Dittoheads aren't bad. They give a power
increase to their master, and will have lots of alignments for future power-ups.

    Play any power-ups that you have on your first turn, because at this point
they can not be cancelled. You can do the same with your NWOs. Don't be afraid
to spend your tokens playing power-ups this early. The power-ups will probably
be worth more than your token when defending against attacks to destroy, and if
somebody steals your groups - big deal!

    Spend your illuminati action to ATO the Orbital Mind Control Lasers if you
have them.

    On your second turn, you should ATO New York, and then take over the Big
Prawn, making it peaceful and doubling it's power. Then use your OMCL token to
turn a rivals high-power group (Clone Arrangers, anyone?) peaceful. If you
either New York or Big Prawn is the one card left in the group deck, then ATO a
group and Center for Weird Studies, so that you can use the OMCLs twice.
    At this point you'll probably have reached 30 peaceful power. And you've
still got most of your tokens and perhaps some NWOs left.

End Game/Potential Problems

    OK, this deck is so fast that it's first shot at victory can hardly be
called an endgame. Should something go wrong, then your real endgame begins. If
you just don't get the right cards, then don't panic - reaching your goal on
turn 3 isn't too shabby.
    If someone else gets New York first, you should use the Big Prawn on Japan,
and be satisfied to turn New York peaceful with the OMCLs, or perhaps a Kinder &
Gentler. If somebody else has the Prawn, then Center for Weird Studies is also a
magnificent long term resource, which will allow you to use the OMCLs twice on
the same turn. Again, take comfort in the fact that a powerful Prawned place is
an excellent target for your pacifying cards. Speaking of big groups with
doubled power: Keep your eyes peeled for any magic group using the Necronomicon,
since they will not lose power when turned peaceful.

    Should OMCLs be destroyed, then Gay Activist may serve as a good back up,
and can too benefit from an extra token from the Center for Weird Studies.
Naturally, your rivals need to have high-power violent groups for this to work,
but usually those aren't in short demand. If someone else has the OMCLs, then
that will be a problem - but you can still acquire the necessary power to win,
and Forgery may also help you out of this sticky situation.

    You should be able to make ATO + power-ups for several turns, creating quite
a few power 6 peaceful groups. OMCLs, Gay Activists, Center for Weird Studies
and Kinder & Gentler should keep you in the game even if your rivals really tear
into you. If they decide to kill you off entirely, then Goal: Arise! can turn it
to your advantage.

    Finally, remember that Shangri-La is probably the best illuminati when it
comes to shared victories - you can literally give away your (peaceful) groups
and still win with them! Also, a number of rivals might be interested in all
your spare power-ups, so if all else fails, strike a deal.

Variants and Substitutions

    The deck was created using low rarity cards: 28 commons, 10 uncommons, 5
subgenius cards (from a single set), and a single rare card. The deck can be
made even more powerful by adding more rares, but I deliberately wanted to
create a version that most players should be able to either build or trade their
way into.

    The most important card is probably the rare big prawn. The subgenius cards
aren't vital to the deck, and it shouldn't be too hard finding good substitutes.
The multi-alignment groups are good, but the deck can run pretty smoothly
without them. Telephone psychics (along with 2 Mob Connections) could work just
fine. Trekkies is also good (*cough*-*splutter*) - just add 2 Weird Turn Pros.
If you've got a subgenius set or 2, and no Dittoheads, then 'Frop Farm will work
well with Church of Middle America, a 13013 or two, and Eternal Salvation or
Triple Your Money Back.
    Finally, Vatican City and A.M.A. are pretty good off the shelf peaceful
groups, and California is a decent substitute for New York.

    As for the NWOs, use the ones that add power to any non-violent groups, and
avoid the ones that subtract power from basically anything! Actually, Political
Correctness is probably better than Peace in Our Time in this respect, but I
went with the common card.

    Finally, a few rare cards are worth mentioning:
        Messiah will add quite a bit of power at absolutely no cost - awesome.
        Canada is also great. It can slurp up Lama Ramadingdong, it has 3
alignments, it will add to the Lama's power, and it benefits from Chicken in
Every Pot. If you've got Canada, then consider replacing some Peace in Our Times
with Political Correctness'.
        Supreme Court, along with Canada could turn the deck into a peaceful
government deck, which would then benefit greatly from Clipper Chip.
        Cover of Darkness and Deasil Engine will help you protect (or destroy)
the Orbital Mind Control Lasers.
        Unmasked, along with another Shangri-La is a powerful bargaining chip
when trying to set up a shared victory, but this clever ploy might actually be
too slow for this deck.
        Grosse Magier - not exactly rare, jut hard to get - is a peaceful magic
card, and can become huge with the help of the Necronomicon, and possibly a
Celebrity Spokesman. Sufficiently Advanced Technology will make a peaceful
science group eligible for the Necronomicon, but that may be too much hassle.
    And that's that, really. Peace in Our Time!

Back to Deck of the Week
