Violence is for Everyone!
by Brian Davidson

Card Data
Illuminati:

    Adepts of Hermes

Groups:

    BATF
    Church of Violentology
    Count Dracula
    Fast Food Chains
    Gun Lobby
    Local Police Departments
    Semiconscious Liberation Army
    Supreme Court
    WITCH

Resources:

    Book of Kells
    Necronomicon
    Crystal Skull

Plots:

    Illuminati: Bermuda Triangle
    Illuminati: Servants of Cthulhu
    NWO Red: Political Correctness
    NWO Blue: Energy Crisis
    NWO Yellow: Law and Order
    Albino Alligators
    Attitude Mutation
    The Big Score
    Charismatic Leader
    Citizenship Award
    Emergency Powers
    Forgery
    Good Polls
    Grassroots Support
    Just Say No
    Kinder and Gentler
    Market Manipulation
    Martial Law
    New Blood
    Nuclear Accident
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Self Esteem
    Sorry, Wrong Number
    Swiss Bank Account
    Terrorist Nuke x2
    Truck Bomb
    Unmasked! X2
    Voodoo Economics

Strategy
Introduction

    This deck is intended to deceive (how original). It looks a lot like a
standard Adepts Deck at first, but the heavy emphasis on Violent Groups may make
your rivals suspect a Cthulhoid Unmask!-ing. While either of these Illuminati
Special Goals can work with this deck, the real aim is to surprise your
opponents by Unmask!-ing as Bermuda, and winning with their Special Goal. If
handled correctly, this should come as a complete surprise. There are no Goal
cards in the deck, but you still have four possible victories.

Lead

    Supreme Court. If it bounces (which is unlikely), try B.A.T.F. and if all
else fails, the Church of Violentology.

First ATO

    This will be based on your opponents' Illuminati and leads. Pick a Group
which gives the most bonuses against them. C of V and SLA are good all-purpose
ATOs, but if the Supreme Court bounced as a lead, and you have it, play it here.
It is one of your major keys.

Opening Game

    The important Groups early on, aside from those already mentioned, are Local
Police Departments, W.I.T.C.H. and the Gun Lobby, as well as your Resources.
There is a nice selection of +10 cards to help you get Groups out when you can't
get enough from Alignment bonuses. Don't focus on destroying enemy Groups unless
a juicy target presents itself. Link the Book of Kells to W.I.T.C.H. as soon as
possible.

Midgame

    Sooner or later, your rivals will begin to suspect an Unmask!-ing as Cthulhu
because of all of your nice bonuses to destroy. Just grin and keep on building.
Get the Necronomicon out and link it to Local Police Departments, as well as the
Crystal Skull and link it to Count Dracula. Save the Fast Food Chains for last,
if possible. Use the power boosters as you can, but save your NWOs for removing
troublesome ones played by your opponents. Once the Crystal Skull is out, start
Plot fishing, by attacking the C of V with the Local Police Departments. You can
draw three plots this way (see Dirty Tricks below), by spending only one token,
with no serious chance of actual destruction. Use Privileged Attack and Truck
Bomb if your opponents are likely to join the attack, and use W.I.T.C.H. and
Murphy's Law in the unlikely event that you roll low enough to succeed.

    If you draw defensive plots like Good Polls, Market Manipulation or Secrets,
return them to the bottom of your deck. You'll need them for the victory bid
later.

Endgame

    If all of your Groups are on the table, then you have every Alignment. There
is only one each of Criminal, Liberal and Peaceful, but at least two of every
other, but you do have an Attitude Mutation to double one of these up, probably
Liberal. Protect the Supreme Court as much as possible, as they are your most
vulnerable. The SLA is easier to defend with your other Groups because of the
many Alignments in common. You will need some help on power, though, as the
total without any enhancement is only 24. Boosting is easy and natural, however.
Be devious and don't make it look like you are increasing power for its own sake
(to coin a phrase). When you are ready to go for the victory, get those NWOs out
for more power, and to provide a backup Criminal Group by turning the Gun Lobby
Criminal with Political Correctness. Make sure you have that Attitude Mutation
and Kinder and Gentler handy, so you can replace the Liberal or Peaceful
Alignment if the Supreme Court or SLA is lost.

Victory Bid

    You should be able to arrange to have at least one Unmask!-ed and both
Illuminati in hand by now, along with Voodoo Economics. Once you've placed
Actions, play VE and burn your extra Plots for tokens.

    If you have not lost any Groups, then your ATO and one or two captures on
this turn should give you thirteen, including the three Magic Resources. If
you've lost a couple of Groups or Resources, then you will need to Unmask! Which
Illuminati will largely depend on your opponents, as both are quite viable.

    Cthulhu is preferable if you think they'll be able to muster significant
strength against you, or if you've lost more than a couple of Groups already, as
you can focus on destroying your own Groups in isolationist mode. You can kill
your own groups easily and safely by unlinking the Necronomicon from the Local
Police and moving it to the C of V, then attacking it with all you've got, one
at a time. Success or failure, either way, a Group goes poof and counts for you.
The C of V, if it survives, can then later attack another group, and if a 10
comes up, W.I.T.C.H. can modify the roll into a backfire.

    The real fun one, though, is Bermuda. With your power-ups and NWOs, you
should have little trouble reaching 35 points of Power. To prepare for this
victory, use your extra tokens (but leave at least one on Supreme Court and
W.I.T.C.H.) to draw Plots like Nuclear Accident, Secrets, Market Manipulation,
Good Polls, and whatever leftover +10s you have. If you are short by a point for
total Power, don't forget that the Book of Kells can be linked to the Illuminati
for one extra point of Power.

    A double Unmask!-ing is possible, although difficult. If you expect to pull
it off, do Bermuda first, as it is the harder to achieve. If you are foiled, you
can then try Cthulhu with your second Unmasked! card. There should be enough
tokens left to destroy a few Groups with the combination listed above. Don't
forget that W.I.T.C.H. can modify the attacks into failures, if you should roll
low.

Card Uses and Dirty Tricks

    B.A.T.F. has a nice bonus to control the Gun Lobby. It also has low
Resistance, making it a good target for Alignment reversing with K & G. With a
power-to-6 booster to the Supreme Court (Emergency Powers), they can power this
all by themselves.

    Local Police Departments can attack to destroy the Church of Violentology
with no fear of being destroyed themselves upon failure. This makes for a nearly
automatic two (three if you are Cthulhu at the time) Plot draw by spending only
one token: One for the Church if the attack fails, one from Cthulhu's Special
Ability for the attacking Group if it succeeds (which you should try to avoid
until very late), and one for the Gun Lobby's Special Ability.

    Link the Necronomicon to the LPDs, as they are immune to its backfire
penalty as well. Once their power is boosted with Grassroots Support, they'll
have a nice 12.

    The Church of Violentology's backfire ability, as mentioned above, can be
extremely useful in going for the Cthulhu Special Goal. Have a bunch of your
low-power Groups all attack to destroy C of V, one at a time, and fail. You get
Plots, plus they all count toward the Goal when they are destroyed by the
backfire. Even if one should somehow succeed, the C of V then counts for
Cthulhu, and you still get a Plot from the Gun Lobby.

    If only the Church of Violentology were a Place, I'd have a lovely little
Dirty Trick involving them and the Center for Disease Controlâ€¦

    Attitude Mutation and Kinder and Gentler are provided to make backups of the
Liberal and Peaceful Alignments for the Bermuda Special Goal. Without backups,
the Supreme Court and SLA will have bullseyes painted on them.

    Voodoo Economics is intended for the victory bid only; your Plots are too
valuable to burn until you are ready to go for it all.

    Political Correctness adds a backup Criminal Group by turning the Power 1
Conservative Gun Lobby Criminal. Don't boost the Power of this Group unless you
have to.

    Count Dracula is only here to protect the Crystal Skull. He adds nothing to
any of the Goal bids except Basic.

    The Nuclear Accident Disaster is included more for its NPC-killing side
effect, rather than as a Disaster, but it can still be used that way if you are
going for a Cthulhu win.

Potential Problems

    If rivals get your Groups out ahead of you, use your Agents to steal them,
rather than destroy, if possible. One loss can be covered without too much
difficulty.

    Specific rivals: Another Cthulhu is bad. If this happens, go for destroys
early and often, especially his. The Society of Assassins may target your two
good Fanatic Groups. Try to make a deal with Plots to let you have/keep them.
Shangri-La could turn into a problem if they start going after your Violent
Groups, but that's only likely if they're counting on a Kill for Peace Goal.
Bermuda's only threat to you is the potential for duplicated Groups. Steal them
with Agents, as mentioned above. The Adepts of Hermes could be troublesome,
Resource-wise, so use your Forgery, and get the Crystal Skull linked to Dracula
ASAP. The other Illuminati are no particular problem for you.

    Several NWOs, especially Red and Blue, are harmful to you. You have one of
each of those to remove bad ones, but you want to save them for as late as
possible, so they are less likely to be replaced themselves. You don't really
*need* any of them in play, so save them for problem situations.

    If the Supreme Court is destroyed or taken away early, you will probably
have to commit to the Cthulhu Goal and start blowing away Groups. You might
still be able to make an Adepts win, if you don't lose anything else.

Substitutions

    Of course, you can swap out the Disaster for one you like better, but I
think the Nuclear Accident is best, for neutralizing a potentially dangerous
NPCs. There is some flexibility with the +10s, and you could replace Grassroots
Support with either another New Blood or Citizenship Award.

    Kinder and Gentler can be replaced with Liberal Agenda; either one will
provide for a duplicate of a singleton Alignment in your structure. I picked K &
G because the Supreme Court's Power is higher than the SLA's, especially after
boosting, for the purposes of powering the Plot, but an Illuminati action will
work for either. Liberal Agenda also does not have the drawback of *reversing*
an Alignment, but the likely targets all have high Resistance.

    A Reload! or two can be useful in the early going, when your Violent Groups
are all still low powered, but they become next to worthless in the later game.
I ended up going with Voodoo Economics instead, because it is more useful later
on, when the rest of your Plot deck is immaterial.

    I had also played with the idea of including a Military-Industrial Complex
NWO, in order to increase the effectiveness of the Supreme Court's canceling
ability. You might want to substitute it for Law and Order if you think you can
maintain enough Power without it.

    The original deck did not have Count Dracula, because there was no Crystal
Skull. I used the Eco-Guerillas instead, because of their Liberal Alignment and
bonus to destroy, which was right in line with the Cthulhu deception. Plot
control was limited, though, and it became more crucial to have the proper Plots
in hand than to have that extra Liberal Group. Replacing the then-unneeded
Kinder and Gentler (Peaceful was the only undoubled Alignment and Attitude
Mutation provided for that) was a Car Bomb, just to have an Assassination handy.

    Other cards you may wish to add would be an Assassination and possibly some
extra cancellers. Be careful, though; the card balance is fairly delicate here,
and every Plot has an important purpose. If you need to eliminate some, the
easiest to do without would be the Murphy's Law, Swiss Bank Account, one
Unmasked!, or Sorry, Wrong Number.

Back to Deck of the Week
